OUTLINE
-------

I. Welcome
II. How to choose a distribution
III. How to partition your system

I. Welcome
----------

Welcome to the Introduction to Unix/Linux course.  The first lesson will be an
introduction to the shell.  You will need a working Linux installation to
follow along with the lesson.  This "pre-lesson" should give you some hints on
how to get started with an install if you haven't performed one yet.

If you don't have a machine to dedicate to a Linux installation, it is
recommended that you install inside a virtual machine so that you can still use
your computer.  You can download VirtualBox (http://www.virtualbox.org) and use
it for free on all major operating systems.

Some administrative things:

* Please post questions under the relevant lesson in the IntroToUnix subreddit
  (http://www.reddit.com/r/introtounix). This allows others taking the course
  to make use of the answer without us having to repeat ourselves.  There are a
  lot of people taking this course, and it will certainly save us a lot of time
  to not have to deal with duplicate questions!

* If you are posting in an old lesson or your question has somehow slipped
  under the radar, don't worry.  Kindly send us an e-mail or Reddit PM with
  a permalink to your question and we'll get on it!

* As mentioned in the syallbus, please do provide feedback if you think there
  is something we can do to be more effective teachers.

* Our Reddit usernames are kdorf and zenhack.  Our UReddit e-mails are the same
  (@ureddit.com).

II. How to choose a distribution
--------------------------------

There are many Linux distributions to choose from.  There is a list of the
top ten Linux distributions on DistroWatch.com
(http://distrowatch.com/dwres.php?resource=major).  If this is your first time
using Linux, you might want to get started with one of these:

* Ubuntu
* Linux Mint
* Fedora
* openSUSE
* Debian

The aforementioned distributions are not targeted at power-users, and should be
easy to install even for a novice.

III. How to partition your system
---------------------------------

During the installation, you will be asked how you want to partition your system.
Some distributions have an option to do it automatically.  Don't do this.  We'll
start with a lesson in partitioning.  For each partition, choose ext4 if it is
available (unless noted), otherwise choose ext3.  The "ext" series of
filesystems are native to Linux, and ext4 is the latest revision.  ext4 should
be available for the latest version of each distribution listed above.

The following partitioning scheme should provide ample space for just about
every use case::

    /boot -  2 GiB (choose ext3 here)
    /     - 20 GiB
    /var  - 10 GiB
    swap  - (same as the amount of RAM you have; use the "swap" type, not ext4)
    /home - all remaining space

Now, some explanation:

Different branches of the filesystem (/boot, /var, etc.) can be separated by
creating different partitions.  There are several reasons for doing this:

* The directory might contain files with certain properties, and might benefit
  from tuning the filesystem options (here, we do not worry about that).  An
  example might be a partiton that will contain mostly many very small files.

* There is some reason we need the directory on a different type of filesystem.
  /boot fits here -- we use ext3 because some older versions of grub (the
  bootloader) do not support ext4, and we want to avoid problems just in case.

* If a partition fills up, we don't want it taking down the rest of the system.
  If the partition that root (/) is on fills up, bad things can happen.  /var
  fits here.  Because /var holds logs, it is written to frequently.  If some
  logging facility starts writing to your disk like crazy, you do not want it
  to junk up the partition your root directory (/) is on.

* If you ever have to reformat your system, you can leave some data intact.
  This is the main reason for separating out /home.  You can, at your option,
  install another distribution and keep all your data intact if you keep /home
  on its own partition.

If you're on a laptop, you probably want swap size to match the amount of RAM
you have.  This allows you to use hibernate.  In other cases, you may not need
swap to match the amount of RAM you have (indeed, you might not need very much
swap -- or possibly none at all!)  However, since disk space is cheap, swap =
RAM is a good general rule of thumb.
